HA systems used to be extremely hard to build and maintain.
These systems were very expensive,
relied on custom hardware,
and required experts to operate them.
They are used by governments and only a handful of industries such as telecommunications.
More recently, HA has become more
achievable with commodity hardware and open-source software.
It still requires extensive time to set up and run.
These systems do not need custom hardware,
they required even more expertise to maintain.
The software was often open-source with no company to provide support.
Today, in Cloud infrastructures like AWS,
highly available systems can be set up with a few clicks.
Some knowledge is required to configure and test these systems,
but the barrier to entry has been lowered dramatically,
opening up these capabilities to far more organizations.